Some basic IBC docs added (#822)
anoma/namada: documentation/docs/src/user-guide/ibc.md

# Using IBC with Namada

> This document describes using the inter-blockchain communication (IBC) protocol with Namada. This documentation covers being able create connections through IBC as well as setting up local fractal instances of Namada for testing purposes.

Reviewer: should cover create clients, connections, and channels, then sending transfers

also we should just say "local instances" of Namada

Reviewer: (hermes may do this automatically)

Author: Yes I like this structure, will ammend

Author: Actually, I just realised I'm not sure what you mean by creating clients here

Reviewer: creating IBC clients (light clients), IBC connections, and IBC channels. Maybe `hermes start` does this?

:::warning
Warning! This is quite an advanced feature at the moment and is currently in development
:::

## Setting up

The below is intended for those that wish to conduct IBC message transfer between two Namada chains. There is of course the cabablitiy to do this between any two IBC compatible chains (such as a cosmos chain). In this case, it is necessary to have a node of both the destination and the source chain running in order to make any package transfers. Below, we discuss setting up 2 Namada chains for this purpose.

### Downloading the IBC-rs repo

In order to create the relayer that is able to set up IBC connections, the following repo will need to be cloned. Then we enter the directory.

```bash=

> git clone git@github.com:heliaxdev/ibc-rs.git && cd ibc-rs

Reviewer 2: We need to check out the branch commit.

```suggestion
git clone git@github.com:heliaxdev/ibc-rs.git \
&& cd ibc-rs \
&& git checkout 3ea4b4bff6f790a472c5c7ec61725703085c2ebf
```

```

### Running multiple instances of Namada

In order to make IBC transfers across two Namada chains, one must be running two nodes of Namada at once. In order to do this, two CHAIN-IDs will need to be retrieved. In the case that there is only 1 testnet running, one may need to setup a local namada chain (which will be proof of authority since you will be the only one running it :P).

Below, I discuss how to setup connections between two local namada testnets, and I append how to achieve ibc package transfers between arbitrary chain_ids afterwards.

#### Setting up local Namada fractal instances
In order to setup a local testnet, we have created an easy script that does this for you. The following command will setup two local testnets.

In order for this to be completed, one must have cloned the namada directory and built the wasm scripts. This is achieved by the following command

```bash=
git clone 
#Make sure you are in the home directory
cd ~
#Now clone
git@github.com:anoma/namada.git && cd namada
make build-wasm-scripts
export NAMADA_DIR=${HOME}/namada
```

The second command requires being located in the achieved in the ibc-rs directory.

```bash=
cd ~/ibc-rs/

> ./e2e/namada-test.sh ${NAMADA_DIR}

Reviewer 2: The script runs also ibc-rs' E2E test and shut down Namada chains.
I made a new script `scripts/setup-namada.sh`.
Could you try it?

```

Congratulaitons, you now (hopefully) have 2 local namada chains running in the background.

### Opening up communication
You should now have what is required in order to setup communication channels

We will begin by collecting the CHAIN_IDs for the different blockchains we want to establish a connection between.

A simple way to find these chain ids is to run

```bash=
ls ~/ibc-rs/.anoma
```

This should show something like

```bash=
ls .anoma/
global-config.toml                   namada-test.d9efda6aeb93cf8c38
namada-test.79d9d85f3dbfa1afa2       namada-test.d9efda6aeb93cf8c38.toml
namada-test.79d9d85f3dbfa1afa2.toml

```

In this case, the 2 chain ids of interest are 

```bash!
export CHAIN_A_ID=namada-test.d9efda6aeb93cf8c38
export CHAIN_B_ID= namada-test.79d9d85f3dbfa1afa2
```

:::info
But the above CHAIN_IDs will depend on your own setup, so do check this for yourself!
:::

Finally,

```bash!
export HERMES_CONFIG=
cargo run --bin hermes -- -c ${HERMES_CONFIG} \
create channel ${CHAIN_A_ID} --chain-b ${CHAIN_B_ID} \
--port-a transfer --port-b transfer \
--new-client-connection
```

This will establish a connection that will allow you to make transfers across chains.

> Such transfers can be achieved by

Reviewer: Can we go ahead and give an example of how to generate test keys for all of these parameters?

Author: I'm a bit confused by what you mean by this, generate test keys for transfers?

Reviewer: yeah

```bash!

> namadac ibc-transfer \

Reviewer 2: We need to set `--base-dir` for each base directory.
For the new script `setup-namada.sh`, it should be `${IBC_RS_DIR}/data/namada-a/.anoma` or `${IBC_RS_DIR}/data/namada-b/.anoma`.

Author: In each namadac call we need to supply the --base-dir argument, is that correct?

    --amount ${AMOUNT} \
    --source ${SOURCE_ALIAS} \
    --receiver ${RECEIVER_RAW_ADDRESS} \
    --token ${TOKEN_ALIAS} \
    --channel-id ${CHANNEL_ID} \
    --ledger-address ${LEDGER_ADDRESS}
```
Where the above variables in `${VARIABLE}` must be substituted with appropriate values.

E.g

```bash!

> namadac ibc-transfer \

Reviewer: Does this do the relaying, or will Hermes do they relaying (I assume)? In the latter case Hermes must be running, right?

Author: Yes, hermes must be running, I'll make sure to clarify that

    --amount 100 \
    --source albert \
    --receiver cosmos1lkp4xrhd5hh3f7u5n2aj429upuur3wk28qgtll \
    --token xan \
    --channel-id channel-0 \
    --ledger-address 127.0.0.1:27657
```

To find your ledger address for CHAIN_A, you can run the following command

```bash!

> grep "net_address" .anoma/${CHAIN_A_ID}/setup/validator-0/.anoma/${CHAIN_A_ID}.toml 

Reviewer 2: `net_address` is not the ledger address. It should be `rpc_address`.
```
grep "rpc_address" ${IBC_RS_DIR}/data/namada-a/.anoma/${CHAIN_A_ID}/setup/validator-0/.anoma/${CHAIN_A_ID}/config.toml
```

> # Using IBC with Namada

Reviewer 2: I think that this doc has twos parts:
1. Setup Hermes (without the script)
2. Local testing with the script

I suggest that it should be separated clearly. How about making the second part an example of setting up Hermes (though the config will be created)?

### Setup Hermes for Namada
  1. Make an account for Hermes on each instance
  2. Make Hermes config.toml
  3. Set up a channel (also a client and a connection) between two instances
  4. Run Hermes to relay packets between instances

  (These operations are to set up Hermes for any Namada instances. And they are not specific for the script `setup-namada.sh`.)
 
### Setup Hermes for local Namada instances
...

# Using IBC with Namada

This document describes using the inter-blockchain communication (IBC) protocol with Namada. This documentation covers being able to create connections through IBC as well as setting up local fractal instances of Namada for testing purposes.

> **Warning**
>

> > This is quite an advanced feature at the moment and is currently in development

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This is quite an advanced feature at the moment and development is still ongoing.
```

This document will cover three essential steps for using IBC with Namada

1. [Setup Hermes](#setup-hermes)
2. [Setup nodes for Namada instances](#setup-nodes-for-namada-instances)
3. [Transferring assets over IBC](#transferring-assets-over-IBC)

> The below is intended for those that wish to conduct IBC message transfer between two Namada chains. There is of course the cabablitiy to do this between any two IBC compatible chains (such as a cosmos chain). In this case, it is necessary to have a node of both the destination and the source chain running in order to make any package transfers. Below, we discuss first how to enable this connection between two pre-existing chains by Hermes, and second setting up 2 Namada local instances or joining two pre-existing Namada instances for this purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The below is intended for those that wish to conduct IBC message transfer between two Namada chains. There is of course the capability to do this between any two IBC compatible chains (such as a Cosmos chain). In this case, it is necessary to have a node of both the destination and the source chain running in order to make any packet transfers. Below, we discuss first how to enable this connection between two pre-existing chains by Hermes, and second how to set up 2 Namada local instances or join two pre-existing Namada instances for this purpose.
```

## Setup Hermes

> Hermes is an IBC relayer to relay packets between chains(instances). We have our [Hermes supporting Namada instances](https://github.com/heliaxdev/ibc-rs/tree/yuji/v0.14.0_namada).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hermes is an IBC relayer that relays packets between chains (instances). We have a fork of Hermes which supports Namada instances [here](https://github.com/heliaxdev/ibc-rs/tree/yuji/v0.14.0_namada).
```

> Before packet relay, we need the following step to configure and start Hermes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before packet relay, we need the following steps to configure and start Hermes:
```

1. Make Hermes config file

> 2. Create IBC client/connection/channel between instances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create IBC clients, connection, and channel between instances
```

3. Run Hermes

### Make Hermes config file
One essential piece of the puzzle is to create a `config.toml` file that describes what connections will be set up that the relayer will be responsible for.

Make a relayer config toml file (Hermes' config.toml). If you don't specify the file, `~/.hermes/config.toml` is read as default.

You can find an example of the config file [here](https://hackmd.io/l6HNSqJmQt6QfkjfTmSfbw). Basically, you change only the chain IDs, the RPC addresses, and the key names to the config file for Namada. If you don't have nodes, please set up nodes manually or [scripts](#setup-nodes-for-namada-instances).

> Once this has created, you can export the true path of the new file to a varaible, which will be useful for later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once this has created, you can export the path of the new file to a varaible, which will be useful for later.
```
